README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="center">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_dark.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_light.svg">
        <img src="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_dark.svg" alt="Yii Framework" width="80%">
    </picture>
    <h1 align="center">PSR bridge</h1>
    <br>
</p>
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD041 -->

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/build.yml" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/build.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=PHPUnit&logo=github" alt="PHPUnit">
    </a>
    <a href="https://dashboard.stryker-mutator.io/reports/github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/main" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?style=for-the-badge&url=https%3A%2F%2Fbadge-api.stryker-mutator.io%2Fgithub.com%2Fyii2-extensions%2Fpsr-bridge%2Fmain" alt="Mutation Testing">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/static.yml" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/static.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=PHPStan&logo=github" alt="PHPStan">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
    <strong>Transform your Yii2 applications into high-performance, PSR-compliant powerhouses</strong><br>
    <em>Supporting traditional SAPI, RoadRunner, FrankenPHP, and worker-based architectures</em>
</p>

## Available deployment options

### High-Performance Worker Mode

Long-running PHP workers for higher throughput and lower latency.

[![FrankenPHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/FrankenPHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/franken-php)
[![RoadRunner](https://img.shields.io/badge/RoadRunner-%23FF6B35.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB3aWR0aD0iMjQiIGhlaWdodD0iMjQiIHZpZXdCb3g9IjAgMCAyNCAyNCIgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj4KPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDJMMjIgMTJMMTIgMjJMMiAxMkwxMiAyWiIgZmlsbD0iI0ZGRkZGRiIvPgo8cGF0aCBkPSJNOCAyTDE2IDEwTDggMThaIiBmaWxsPSIjRkY2QjM1Ii8+CjxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xNiA2TDIwIDEwTDE2IDE0WiIgZmlsbD0iI0ZGNkIzNSIvPgo8L3N2Zz4K&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/road-runner)

## Features

<picture>
    <source media="(min-width: 768px)" srcset="./docs/svgs/features.svg">
    <img src="./docs/svgs/features-mobile.svg" alt="Feature Overview" style="width: 100%;">
</picture>

### Installation

```bash
composer require yii2-extensions/psr-bridge:^0.1
```

### Quick start

#### Worker mode (FrankenPHP)

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

// disable PHP automatic session cookie handling
ini_set('session.use_cookies', '0');

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use yii2\extensions\frankenphp\FrankenPHP;
use yii2\extensions\psrbridge\http\StatelessApplication;

// Load environment variables from .env file
$dotenv = Dotenv\Dotenv::createImmutable(dirname(__DIR__));
$dotenv->safeLoad();

// production default (change to 'true' for development)
define('YII_DEBUG', $_ENV['YII_DEBUG'] ?? false);
// production default (change to 'dev' for development)
define('YII_ENV', $_ENV['YII_ENV'] ?? 'prod');

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/yiisoft/yii2/Yii.php';

$config = require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/config/web/app.php';

$runner = new FrankenPHP(new StatelessApplication($config));

$runner->run();
```

#### Worker mode (RoadRunner)

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

require __DIR__ . '/../vendor/autoload.php';

use yii2\extensions\psrbridge\http\StatelessApplication;
use yii2\extensions\roadrunner\RoadRunner;

define('YII_DEBUG', getenv('YII_DEBUG') ?? false);
define('YII_ENV', getenv('YII_ENV') ?? 'prod');

require __DIR__ . '/../vendor/yiisoft/yii2/Yii.php';

$config = require dirname(__DIR__) . '/config/web/app.php';

$runner = new RoadRunner(new StatelessApplication($config));

$runner->run();
```

#### PSR-7 Conversion

```php
// Convert Yii2 request to PSR-7
$request = Yii::$app->request;
$psr7Request = $request->getPsr7Request();

// Convert Yii2 response to PSR-7
$response = Yii::$app->response;
$psr7Response = $response->getPsr7Response();

// Emit PSR-7 response
$emitter = new yii2\extensions\psrbridge\emitter\SapiEmitter();
$emitter->emit($psr7Response);
```

## Documentation

For detailed configuration options and advanced usage.

- 📚 [Installation Guide](docs/installation.md)
- ⚙️ [Configuration Reference](docs/configuration.md)
- 💡 [Usage Examples](docs/examples.md)
- 🧪 [Testing Guide](docs/testing.md)

## Package information

[![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3E%3D8.1-777BB4.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://www.php.net/releases/8.1/en.php)
[![Yii 2.0.x](https://img.shields.io/badge/2.0.53-0073AA.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yii&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/tree/2.0.53)
[![Yii 22.0.x](https://img.shields.io/badge/22.0.x-0073AA.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yii&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/tree/22.0)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=packagist&logoColor=white&label=Stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=composer&logoColor=white&label=Downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)

## Quality code

[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=codecov&logoColor=white&label=Coverage)](https://codecov.io/github/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)
[![PHPStan Level Max](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHPStan-Level%20Max-4F5D95.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/static.yml)
[![Super-Linter](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/linter.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=Super-Linter&logo=github)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/linter.yml)
[![StyleCI](https://img.shields.io/badge/StyleCI-Passed-44CC11.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/1019044094?branch=main)

## Our social networks

[![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Follow%20on%20X-1DA1F2.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=x&logoColor=white&labelColor=000000)](https://x.com/Terabytesoftw)

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD--3--Clause-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=opensourceinitiative&logoColor=white&labelColor=555555)](LICENSE)

Commit message:

fix(docs): Update `README.md` and `docs/configuration.md` to include automatic body parsing setup and parser configuration. (#199)

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 -->
<p align="center">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_dark.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_light.svg">
        <img src="https://www.yiiframework.com/image/design/logo/yii3_full_for_dark.svg" alt="Yii Framework" width="80%">
    </picture>
    <h1 align="center">PSR bridge</h1>
    <br>
</p>
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD041 -->

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/build.yml" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/build.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=PHPUnit&logo=github" alt="PHPUnit">
    </a>
    <a href="https://dashboard.stryker-mutator.io/reports/github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/main" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/endpoint?style=for-the-badge&url=https%3A%2F%2Fbadge-api.stryker-mutator.io%2Fgithub.com%2Fyii2-extensions%2Fpsr-bridge%2Fmain" alt="Mutation Testing">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/static.yml" target="_blank">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/static.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=PHPStan&logo=github" alt="PHPStan">
    </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
    <strong>Transform your Yii2 applications into high-performance, PSR-compliant powerhouses</strong><br>
    <em>Supporting traditional SAPI, RoadRunner, FrankenPHP, and worker-based architectures</em>
</p>

## Available deployment options

### High-Performance Worker Mode

Long-running PHP workers for higher throughput and lower latency.

[![FrankenPHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/FrankenPHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/franken-php)
[![RoadRunner](https://img.shields.io/badge/RoadRunner-%23FF6B35.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyB3aWR0aD0iMjQiIGhlaWdodD0iMjQiIHZpZXdCb3g9IjAgMCAyNCAyNCIgZmlsbD0ibm9uZSIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj4KPHBhdGggZD0iTTEyIDJMMjIgMTJMMTIgMjJMMiAxMkwxMiAyWiIgZmlsbD0iI0ZGRkZGRiIvPgo8cGF0aCBkPSJNOCAyTDE2IDEwTDggMThaIiBmaWxsPSIjRkY2QjM1Ii8+CjxwYXRoIGQ9Ik0xNiA2TDIwIDEwTDE2IDE0WiIgZmlsbD0iI0ZGNkIzNSIvPgo8L3N2Zz4K&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/road-runner)

## Features

<picture>
    <source media="(min-width: 768px)" srcset="./docs/svgs/features.svg">
    <img src="./docs/svgs/features-mobile.svg" alt="Feature Overview" style="width: 100%;">
</picture>

### Installation

```bash
composer require yii2-extensions/psr-bridge:^0.1
```

### Quick start

#### Worker mode (FrankenPHP)

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

// disable PHP automatic session cookie handling
ini_set('session.use_cookies', '0');

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use yii2\extensions\frankenphp\FrankenPHP;
use yii2\extensions\psrbridge\http\StatelessApplication;

// Load environment variables from .env file
$dotenv = Dotenv\Dotenv::createImmutable(dirname(__DIR__));
$dotenv->safeLoad();

// production default (change to 'true' for development)
define('YII_DEBUG', $_ENV['YII_DEBUG'] ?? false);
// production default (change to 'dev' for development)
define('YII_ENV', $_ENV['YII_ENV'] ?? 'prod');

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/yiisoft/yii2/Yii.php';

$config = require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/config/web/app.php';

$runner = new FrankenPHP(new StatelessApplication($config));

$runner->run();
```

#### Worker mode (RoadRunner)

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

require __DIR__ . '/../vendor/autoload.php';

use yii2\extensions\psrbridge\http\StatelessApplication;
use yii2\extensions\roadrunner\RoadRunner;

define('YII_DEBUG', getenv('YII_DEBUG') ?? false);
define('YII_ENV', getenv('YII_ENV') ?? 'prod');

require __DIR__ . '/../vendor/yiisoft/yii2/Yii.php';

$config = require dirname(__DIR__) . '/config/web/app.php';

$runner = new RoadRunner(new StatelessApplication($config));

$runner->run();
```

#### PSR-7 Conversion

```php
// Convert Yii2 request to PSR-7
$request = Yii::$app->request;
$psr7Request = $request->getPsr7Request();

// Convert Yii2 response to PSR-7
$response = Yii::$app->response;
$psr7Response = $response->getPsr7Response();

// Emit PSR-7 response
$emitter = new yii2\extensions\psrbridge\emitter\SapiEmitter();
$emitter->emit($psr7Response);
```

### Smart Body Parsing

The bridge automatically parses incoming PSR-7 request bodies based on the `Content-Type` header and your configured
parsers (for example, `application/json`), ensuring `Yii::$app->request->post()` works seamlessly in worker mode without
extra boilerplate.

## Documentation

For detailed configuration options and advanced usage.

- 📚 [Installation Guide](docs/installation.md)
- ⚙️ [Configuration Reference](docs/configuration.md)
- 💡 [Usage Examples](docs/examples.md)
- 🧪 [Testing Guide](docs/testing.md)

## Package information

[![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3E%3D8.1-777BB4.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)](https://www.php.net/releases/8.1/en.php)
[![Yii 2.0.x](https://img.shields.io/badge/2.0.53-0073AA.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yii&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/tree/2.0.53)
[![Yii 22.0.x](https://img.shields.io/badge/22.0.x-0073AA.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yii&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2/tree/22.0)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=packagist&logoColor=white&label=Stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=composer&logoColor=white&label=Downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)

## Quality code

[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=codecov&logoColor=white&label=Coverage)](https://codecov.io/github/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge)
[![PHPStan Level Max](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHPStan-Level%20Max-4F5D95.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/static.yml)
[![Super-Linter](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/linter.yml?style=for-the-badge&label=Super-Linter&logo=github)](https://github.com/yii2-extensions/psr-bridge/actions/workflows/linter.yml)
[![StyleCI](https://img.shields.io/badge/StyleCI-Passed-44CC11.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white)](https://github.styleci.io/repos/1019044094?branch=main)

## Our social networks

[![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/badge/-Follow%20on%20X-1DA1F2.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=x&logoColor=white&labelColor=000000)](https://x.com/Terabytesoftw)

## License

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD--3--Clause-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=opensourceinitiative&logoColor=white&labelColor=555555)](LICENSE)
